About Nightmares:

Current version 0.2.11
Last change:

Gameplay Adjustments:

    Small wave difficulty increased from 5 to 10; interval changed from 20 to 30.
    All enemies with max spawn count 0 changed to 1.
    Decreased size of each custom wave.
    Increased non custom wave timers by 20 seconds.
    Random waves now increase in difficulty every 10 minutes.

Enemy Changes:

    Bulk detonators (megulk, elemental, non-elemental) will not spawn if one is already alive.
    Rarity of non-frozen bulk/bulkonator set to 16.
    Limited Praetorian spawn in custom wave spawners; renamed Praetorian buffer.
    Drone breeders are now freezable with 1 Cryo Grenade.
    Goo bombers (and variants) are now freezable with 1 Cryo Grenade.

Wave and Spawning Adjustments:

    Custom waves that shouldn't spawn during announced swarms fixed.
    Bulkonator can only spawn in random waves every 3 minutes.
    Grunts, acid spitters, macteras, younglings, praetorians, and oppressors spawned by Naedocyte Grabber veteran are now random choice instead of mission-specific.
    Menaces now appear as a random choice rather than all at once.
    Web spitter variants removed; replaced with the white web spitter, which promotes in normal, cyan, pink, and gritter.

Miscellaneous:

    Renamed Plantonator to Bulkonator.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Base Hazard:

    Hazard Level: 6x2
    Enemy Count: 10% more enemies
    Damage: 20% increase
    Resupply: First free, then 40
    VeteranLarge Set to: 0.18
    Revive with 60% HP
    Regeneration: Up to 40%
    Stationary Difficulty: Changed from 350/450 to 400/500

Global Changes:

    All leeches take 25% damage from piercing.

Vanilla Enemies:

    Normal breeders spawn slowed grabbers, can promote veteran variant that spawns invisible/instant grabbers.
    Normal swarmers and grunts removed.
    WebSpitters rarity: Set to 2.
    Stingtails: Take 2x more damage and have 1.5x time dilation.
    Stalkers: Time dilated to 1.05x; stunnable for 45% of stun duration.
    Caretaker's patrol bots added.
    Swarmers: Reduced to 40% of original size, immune to fire/freeze, fear, and stun; promote into MEV swarmer variants; base HP lowered to 5.
    Greg: A large swarmer, 3x time dilation, immune to freeze/fire.
    Greg Jr.: Spawned by DEA Parabomber and Spawnballer.
    Grabbers now available as invisible/instant variants.
    Added infinite instant leech.*

DEA Enemies:

    WebSpitters: Added small veterans of normal webspitter.
    Gritter: Added as a small veteran of normal webspitter.
    AcidSpitters: Added as small veterans of normal acid spitter.
    Goobers/Foobers: Acid goober added as small veteran; Parabomber added as small veteran.
    Naedocyte Drone: Added.
    Goober No Shot: Added with immortal weak points.
    Nukopter: Added as rare stationary and disruptive unit.
    Arabomber & Bomber Exploder: Added as small veterans of Foober.
    Mactera (Not Goobers): Trundle and Pentajaw added as small veterans of Brundles and Trijaws.
    Grunts: Glasher and Grooter added as small veterans.
    Spitballers: Spawner and Bomber added.
    Menace Variants: Added as large veterans of normal menace.
    Turrets: Added sniper turret.
    Miscellaneous: Stabber Vines added as egg spawns from MEV breeders; Arabomber and Bomber Exploder adjusted for stun duration and immunity.

MEV:

    Grunt Variants: All added.
        Red: Takes 50% explosion damage, 35% fire damage.
        Cyan: Takes 50% frost damage, 35% electrical damage.
        Yellow: Takes 40% corrosive damage, 40% poison damage.
        White: Time dilated to 1.5x; Scale decreased to 0.5x.
        All can promote into veterans of their own color or grunts of other colors.
        Red and Yellow can promote into Red Praetorian; White and Cyan can promote into Cyan Praetorian.
    Exploders: Added as small veterans of normal exploder.
    White Exploder: Replaces swarmers from normal nexus.
    Macteras: All variants added as a single random choice per mission; can promote into small veterans of their respective color.
    Trijaws: Added as a single random choice per mission.
    Patrol Bots: Added as large veterans of caretaker's patrol bot.

Nexus Variants:

    Red Nexus: Spawns turbomenaces.
    Purple Nexus: Spawns stalkers.
        Stalkers: Take 2x more damage; time dilated to 0.9x; immune to fear and stun.
    Green Nexus: Spawns poison brundles.
    Yellow Nexus: Spawns stingtails.
        Stingtails: Immune to stun and fear; take 4x more damage; time dilated to 2x.

Breeders:

    Green Breeder: Spawns DEA stabber vines.
    Yellow Breeder: Spawns shredders; added as stationary and respawnable.
    Red Breeder: Spawns invisible exploders; time dilated 2x; takes 3x more damage; added as respawnable.
    Purple Breeder: Added as stationary and respawnable; spawns web spitters (variant chosen randomly each mission).

Swarmer Variants:

    Added as large veterans of normal swarmer.

Praetorian Variants:

    Red can promote into large veterans of Yellow and Red oppressors.
    Cyan can promote into large veterans of Cyan and White oppressors.

Oppressor Variants:

    Red Oppressor: Takes 45% damage (50% from kinetic, 75% from fire); scaled up 1.5x; movement speed decreased to 90%; acceleration and deceleration increased to 5x; turn speed increased to 2.5x.
    White Oppressor: Takes 2x more damage, 1.6x more melee damage; time dilated 2x; scaled down to 0.75x.
    Cyan Oppressor: Melee only; invisible.
    Yellow Oppressor: Time dilated 1.5x; takes 2.5x more damage from fire, ice, poison, and corrosion; ignited spreads heat 15m around itself.

Bulks:

    Big Bulk: Scaled up 1.5x; movement speed at 40%; takes 75% from all damage sources, 25% from piercing.
    Black Bulk: Takes 10% from kinetic, explosive, internal damage; 1% from piercing; 150% from fire; 600% from poison, corrosive, electrical damage; 800% from radiation, cold damage; 5x damage multiplier when frozen.
    White Bulk: Takes 10% from elemental damage; 155% from kinetic; 150% from kinetic; 125% from piercing, internal.
    Minibulks: Base HP is 200; time dilated 1.2x; invisible.
    Ice Bulk: Scaled 0.9x; time dilated 1.1x.
    Plantonator: Takes 11x damage from all sources; time dilated 5x; spawns minibulks on death.

Korlok Sprouts: Added.

Nukeballers:

    Added single shot, triple shot, and penta shot to stationary pool; deca shot added in encounters.

Younglings & Shellbacks:

    Cyan youngling can promote into purple and cyan shellbacks as large veterans.
    Red youngling can promote into red and white shellbacks as large veterans.

Leeches:

    Both variants added; silent variant is slow but can grab from nearly anywhere; invisible variant is fast with a small range.

*:
Only in teams, Doesnt spawn in escort/refinery